The Vascular Informatics using Epidemiology and the Web (VIEW) research group, led by Professor Rod Jackson, has done extensive research on CVD risk prediction since their inception in 2002. The group’s PREDICT cohort, and the clinical CVD equations derived from this cohort, have been extensively published in leading journals including The Lancet [18]. These equations have also formed the backbone of the current Ministry of Health (MoH) guidelines regarding CVD risk assessment and management in primary care [19].
The group has access to national MoH administrative datasets encompassing demographic characteristic, outpatient visits, primary care enrolment, primary care reimbursement, community laboratory requests, community pharmaceutical dispensing, hospitalisations, and mortality [20,21]. Individual linkage of these datasets has enabled the creation of the Vascular Risk in Adult New Zealanders (VARIANZ) Cohort [22]. This cohort has been used in the development and validation of novel “low information” multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression (Cox) equations (the VARIANZ equations) for estimating 5-year CVD event rate [23]. These Cox equations solely utilise predictors available in routinely collected administrative health data (i.e., sex, age, ethnicity, deprivation, diabetes status, previous hospitalization with atrial fibrillation, and baseline dispensing of pharmacotherapy) and can thus be readily applied on a population level.
The establishment of CareConnect, a regional initiative between the four northern region DHB’s, has meant that laboratory results from 2011 are now available for all individuals in Auckland and Northland via the Northern Region TestSafe Database. This database holds multiple blood test results, including known CVD risk predictors, on a large proportion of the adult population. The VIEW research team have hypothesised that the addition of these predictors to the current VARIANZ equations should significantly improve the performance of the current equations. This project will test the hypothesis .
Aims:
The overall aim of this research is to: (i) investigate whether a range of routinely available laboratory blood test results, from the Northern Region TestSafe database, are predictors of CVD, and (ii) use these findings to refine and revalidate the current VARIANZ Cox equations developed by the VIEW team.
Methodology:
This Honours project will involve extracting and processing relevant blood test results data from the Northern Region TestSafe dataset, then linking these data to the VARIANZ cohort. After the proportional hazard assumptions are assessed, this refined cohort will be utilized to develop new sex specific Cox models of 5-year CVD risk. Adjusted hazard ratios will be examined to understand the contribution of specific predictors and predictor interaction will be assessed using fractional polynomials [24]. Model calibration will be assessed by visually comparing observed 5-year event rates versus predicted 5-year risk within risk deciles. Discrimination will be evaluated using Royston and Sauebrei’s D statistic, Harrell’s C statistic and Gönen and Heller’s K statistic [25-27]. 
